{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf840
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 MY EXPERIENCE WITH THE PASSIVE BUZZER - APRIL 3\
\
- Started with Elegoo\'92s code which was quite simple and which excited me when I saw int melody and then a list of notes.\
- However, Elegoo didn\'92t work. I tried it again, no luck.\
- I checked Ricardo\'92s tutorial and luckily he had one of his chapters not only on buzzer but also on some songs (e.g. Twinkle, Mario).\
- First thing from Ricardo - we shouldn\'92t plug buzzer directly to DC but to AC (got me sweating already - had I used AC) - we shouldn\'92t even plug it without a resistor and a diode (another bullet on me - where on earth am I going to get a \'85.code diode in this CoronaVirus lockdown). And then he went, showing websites with rules on buzzer. He showed Elegoo\'92s code working on his end (he has a different version of the code than me - different kits set).\
- I was then convinced I had fried my buzzer (where am I going to get a replacement at this time!). Cos I when I started my buzzer, I did not remember that I still had the codes and connections of the active buzzer that I previously had on the board. I had had to unplug the USB and changed the signal pin from pin 12 to 8 (still nothing worked). I even wondered why Elegoo did not define a pin for the buzzer but indicated 8 in the conditional statement of their For loop. I thought probably that\'92s what had \'91damaged\'92 the passive buzzer. \
- Then Ricardo started explaining the changes he made to the Elegoo code and brought in a whole lot of other things (functions, consts, schematics, that I couldn\'92t get my heard around.), including tone(), etc. He showed his connections already finished with shield - the biggest bummer. Even the connection diagrams shown were confusing - no way to tell the positive wire routes on the breadboard from the grounds. The schematics were easier to understand.\
- Frustrated by Ricardo\'92s, I remembered Paul McWorter. Checked his YouTube channel. Luckily, he has something. His first illustration (super simple) was quite clear and easy to understand. I followed it and instantly my buzzer went off with a cool sound.\
- I studied McWorter\'92s code carefully and saw that his buzzTime variables were actually referring to the frequency of the buzzer\'92s ticks. I then took off. I started tweaking things, changing frequencies}